---
layout: post
title: The New Site
subtitle: Isn't it wonderful?
published: true
---


I've been thinking for a while that I should probably set up a personal site, somewhere where I could post things I've written, things I've worked on, you get the picture. So here we are, a brand spanking new site with a clean, no-fuss design, I'm really happy with it.

Now, I'm no designer, but thanks to some great open source projects and useful, free services I've managed to knock together something respectable. What you're looking at is a static HTML page generated by [Jekyll][jekyll] and served up by [GitHub Pages][ghpages]. In fact, the whole thing is open source, just [take a look][source].

I thought I'd share the process of designing and building this site in the hope that others may find it useful, so that's what I'm doing here.

## The Starting Point ##

Now the first thing I had to do was come up with some basic idea of how I wanted the site to look, feel and function.

I'd been experimenting with Twitter's [Bootstrap][bootstrap] framework and decided to use that as the base for my site. Bootstrap gave me a rigid grid to work with and really let me prototype freely during the early stages of designing the site. It also provides some nice default typography styles which I'm using pretty much as-is to make my articles look great.

I did make a few changes however, I dropped the grid column count down to 12 resulting in a site that's only 700 pixels wide. I also set the base font size to 16 pixels with a line height of 24 pixels. The result of all this is a design which is much more pleasant to read off.

Now early design looked [quite][prototype1] [different][prototype2] but I'm quite happy with what I settled on in the end. With a rough idea of the design in my head, I began to think about how I was going to build it.

## Derailed ##

Now, my initial idea for this site's implementation was to build a CMS in Ruby on Rails, simply put this was a *bad idea* for several reasons.

Firstly, this was my first big project in Rails and I was in no way experienced enough to build something as complex as I was imagining. The more I worked on the project, the more its scope expanded and the more I came up against my own limitations and lack of experience. In the end, I had a hard to maintain, buggy piece of software that really wasn't all that useful.

I was adding features upon features upon features, the feature creep was spiralling out of control. The app was growing more and more complex, what I really needed to do was step back and look at what I really needed, what I couldn't do without and just build that. But that's not what I did, and I ended up with a piece of software that was unfocused and poorly thought out as a result.

Lastly, it really didn't fit in that well with my writing workflow. When I get an idea for a post I'll usually throw it into an "ideas" note in [NValt][nv], eventually getting it's own note where I start fleshing out the idea. Finally I'll start a new Markdown document in my 'writing' folder where I'll write the full article. With my Rails app, I could copy this Markdown source into the app, but if I made any edits, I'd have to manually keep my local copy in sync. I tend to do a lot of editing after I put a post up so this was going to be a massive pain.

So for those reasons, I had to drop the Rails app and look for something else, something simpler and more attuned to my personal needs.

## Jekyll & GitHub Pages ##

I'd heard about Jekyll before, a Ruby gem that generates static sites based on template data and a directory of Markdown files, but never really payed much attention to it. But I'd been learning more and more about [GitHub Pages][ghpages] and seriously considering it for hosting my site. My initial plan was to use [Heroku][heroku] but as a student I don't make a lot of money and I couldn't justify another monthly expense.

So I started playing around with GitHub pages and this involved learning Jekyll. I really quite liked what I saw of Jekyll and, after only a few hours of playing with it, decided to use it for my site. I really like the way Jekyll lets me simply symlink my site's `_posts` directory within my 'writing' folder, it makes it a lot easier to keep my posts up to date and fits in great with my writing workflow.

All in all, it's just way easier to do most things with Jekyll than it would have been to implement those features into my own Rails based CMS.

## The Logo ##

I knew from the start that I wanted to call my site *A Waste of Space*, and I wanted a cool logo to go with it. It seemed only fitting that the logo would have something to do with space, so I found an [image of Saturn][saturn], converted it to grayscale and played with the levels a bit. The result was alright but not great, and it needed to be great.

I tried to make a vector logo based off of that image, but as I said before I'm no designer and the results were less than great. In the end, a friend of mine offered to draw it up for me, and the end result was just perfect.

I went to embed it in the page, and it all looked pretty good, I made a point of scaling down a large image for the logo so it would look good if readers zoomed in, but this caused a problem. iOS devices, as it turns out, do little to no antialiasing on scaled images. So I had a problem, it was looking like I'd have to scale the image down and just deal with pixellation when users zoomed.

But I came up with a better solution, that little logo you see at the top left of this page isn't actually an image. What you're seeing is SVG data embedded directly into the site's HTML, this forces iOS devices to draw an antialiased image at every zoom level and looks great no matter how much you zoom in, just give it a try.

This comes with its own set of problems that I'm currently working on fixing, for instance, the Opera browser and Android 2.x devices currently don't render it, but I'm looking into providing an image fallback for those cases.

## No Comment ##

I've neglected to add any sort of commenting features to this site, and that's been done very deliberately. I feel that every comment section I've ever seen devolves into inane arguments or self promotion and I don't want any of that on my site.

Of course, if anyone likes my articles, they're free to contact me, my email is featured prominently on this site's home page and links to my Google+ and Twitter accounts are in the footer. I feel that if someone really wanted to give me feedback, sending me an email wouldn't be much of a barrier.

There's also sites like Hacker News and Reddit that people can post my articles to if they want a more public forum for their thoughts and a way to read the thoughts of others. I feel that both of these solutions are preferable to having a list of comments at the bottom of each of my posts.

## Finishing Up ##

I'm really happy with how the new site turned out, the design isn't particularly memorable, but I'm totally fine with that. The blend of simplicity and minimalism, clarity and utility is exactly what I was aiming for when I started this project.

I wanted a content focused design and that's what I feel I've achieved here, I couldn't be happier.

If you have any comments, feel free to contact me via [email](mailto:rhys@rpowell.me) or on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/FrogBawt).

[jekyll]: http://jekyllrb.com/
[ghpages]: http://pages.github.com/
[source]: https://github.com/FrogBot/frogbot.github.com
[bootstrap]: http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/
[prototype1]: /images/new-site/old-design-one.png
[prototype2]: /images/new-site/old-design-two.png
[nv]: http://brettterpstra.com/project/nvalt/
[heroku]: http://www.heroku.com/
[saturn]: http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/image/planetary/saturn/saturn.jpg