---
layout: post
title: Limits
subtitle: Limitation breeds creativity
published: true
---

In writing *The Cat in the Hat*, Dr. Seuss was tasked with creating a book composed solely of the 348 words that his friend William Ellsworth Spaulding believed they should developmentally know. Out of these he made use of 223 words on the list and only 13 that were not. Soon following this, Seuss was challenged by Random House, his publisher, to create a book using a vocabulary of only 50 words, betting hime $50 that he couldn't do it. Seuss won the bet, publishing the bizarre, delightful and somewhat repetitve *Green Eggs and Ham*.

Lego has long touted that with six standard two-by-four stud Lego bricks, you can create somewhere in the vicinity of ten-million different combinations, quite an impressive number to say the least. But this is an understatement, in his academic paper entitled [*A LEGO Counting problem*][lego], it's author Søren Eilers proves mathematically that the number of possible combinations is closer to ninety-five-million.

[lego]:  http://www.math.ku.dk/~eilers/lego.html

In both of these cases, tools  which were considered limiting were taken far beyond their perceived capabilities. Perhaps clearly defined boundaries and limitations were what allowed this to happen? 

I recently picked up the iPad, it's a curiously limited device. One app a time, full screen, no way to check twitter while I write, no way to switch rapidly between twenty chats and web pages, no distractions. The iPad, more than any device I've used, is defined more by what's missing than what isn't. Yet these missing features are no problem, for many they make the device desirable. 

I'm sitting here, typing on glass, music softly playing, nothing else to distract and detract from the simple act of putting words on a screen, and you know what? It's bliss. 

Limitation breeds creativity.